# Forum and eLearning

## Forum

To go above and beyond email, live chat, web forms, and phone lines,
offer your customers a support forum. This way, customers might become
more attached to your company as they would be investing time to get
into details of your business. You also encourage the exchange of
experiences and knowledge, supporting the feeling of belonging to a
community (your community\!).

### Set up

Go to `Helpdesk --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Team` and enable *Help
Center*.

![Overview of the settings page of a helpdesk team emphasizing the help
center feature in&#10;Odoo
Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/help_center_feature.png)

Create, or edit a forum by clicking on the external link. Among the
editing options, choose if you would like the *Forum Mode* to be
*Questions*: only one answer is allowed per question or *Discussions*:
multiple answers are allowed per question.

![Overview of a forum’s settings page in Odoo
Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/help_center_customer_care.png)

From now on, logged in users can start their discussions. To keep track
of posts, go to `Website --> Forum --> Posts`.

![Overview of the Forums page of a website to show the available ones in
Odoo Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/customer_care_website.png)

Turn tickets into forum posts by simply clicking on *Share on the Forum*
on the ticket's page.

![Overview of the Forums page of a website to show the available ones in
Odoo Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/share_forum.png)

## eLearning

In addition to a forum, offer online courses. When doing so, you link
your customers and users’ needs and questions to useful content, helping
to boost efficiency as they can also find their answers there.

### Set up

Go to `Helpdesk --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and enable
*eLearning*.

![Overview of the settings page of a customer care team emphasizing the
feature elearning in&#10;Odoo
Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/elearning_feature.png)

Once the structure and content of your course are ready, *Publish* it by
clicking on *Unpublished*.

![View of a course being published for Odoo
Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/course_website.png)

To keep track of your course statistics, go to *eLearning* and *View
Course*.

![View of the elearning applications dashboard for Odoo
Helpdesk](forum_and_elearning/view_course_elearning.png)

<div class="todo">

DETAILS/INFO SHOULD COME FROM ELEARNING DOCS. THEREFORE, LINK DOCS ONCE
AVAILABLE\!

</div>
