# Multiple sales teams

Use the *Sales Teams* feature to manage several sales teams,
departments, or channels, each with their own unique sales processes.

## Create a new sales team

To create a new sales team, go to
`CRM --> Configuration --> Sales Teams`, then click `Create`.

On the creation page, set an `Email Alias` to automatically generate a
lead/opportunity for this sales team every time a message is sent to
that unique email address. Choose whether to accept emails from
`Everyone`, `Authenticated Partners`, or `Followers
Only`.

Set an `Invoicing Target` if this team has specific monthly revenue
goals. Set a `Domain` to assign leads/opportunities to this sales team
based on specific filters, such as country, language, or campaign.

<img src="multi_sales_team/sales-team-creation.png" class="align-center"
alt="Create a sales team in Konvergo ERP CRM." />

### Add members to a sales team

To add team members, click `Add` under the `Members` tab when editing
the sales team's configuration page. Select a salesperson from the
drop-down menu or create new salesperson. Set a maximum number of leads
that can be assigned to this salesperson in a 30-day period to ensure
that they do not overwork.

<img src="multi_sales_team/add-a-salesperson.png" class="align-center"
alt="Add a salesperson in Konvergo ERP CRM." />

One person can be added as a team member or `Team Leader` to multiple
sales teams, allowing them to access all of the pipelines that they need
to.

## Sales team dashboard

To view the sales team dashboard, go to `CRM --> Sales --> Teams`. Konvergo ERP
users will see any teams that they are a part of as dashboard tiles.

Each tile gives an overview of the sales team's open opportunities,
quotations, sales orders, and expected revenue, as well as a bar graph
of new opportunities per week and an invoicing progress bar.

<img src="multi_sales_team/sales-team-overview.png" class="align-center"
alt="Sales team overview dashboard in Konvergo ERP CRM." />

Click on the three dots in the corner of a tile to open a navigational
menu that lets users quickly view documents or reports, create new
quotations or opportunities, pick a color for this team, or access the
team's configuration page.

<img src="multi_sales_team/team-overview-three-dot-menu.png"
class="align-center"
alt="Click the Three Dot Menu in Konvergo ERP CRM dashboard to view documents and create opportunities." />

Click on the `Pipeline` button to go directly to that team's CRM
pipeline.
