# Add subscription products

To properly sell your subscriptions using our amazing **Odoo
Subscriptions** application, you must follow these steps:

1.  **Create your own subscription templates**
2.  **Create your own subscription products with the right settings**

As a result, you will be able to manage your subscriptions like any
other product, create your quotations and continue the sales flow to
track the number of subscriptions you sell and manage the revenue they
generate.

## Configuration

Go to `Subscriptions --> Subscription products` to learn how you can
configure your own subscription products. You have the possibility to
create a new product or edit an existing one. Once named, be careful to
select the option *Can be sold* and deselect *Can be purchased*. For the
product type, it is recommended to use *Service* for subscription
products as they are non-material products that you provide to your
customers. Finally, you can adapt your prices and also add an internal
reference.

![View of a subscription product form in Odoo
Subscriptions](subscription_products/subscription-products-configuration.png)

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

In the Sales tab, underneath the Subscriptions section, make sure the
*Subscription products* option is activated. In fact, if you create a
subscription product from the **Odoo Subscriptions** application, this
option is selected by default. However, if you create a product from
another application, it is not the case.

![View of a subscription product form in Odoo
Subscriptions](subscription_products/subscription-products-form.png)

You can also choose the subscription templates you want to use.

![View of a subscription product form in Odoo
Subscriptions](subscription_products/subscription-products-using-subscription-templates.png)

</div>

<div class="important">

<div class="title">

Important

</div>

Be sure to check out our documentation on how to create, edit and manage
your own `Subscription templates
<../../subscriptions/configuration/subscription_templates>` before
creating your own subscription products. Once created, check out our
documentation on how to `Create a quotation using subscription products
<../../subscriptions/sales_flow/create_a_quotation>`, to complete the
sales flow.

</div>

<div class="seealso">

\- `../../subscriptions/configuration/subscription_templates` -
`../../subscriptions/sales_flow/create_a_quotation`

</div>
