# Optional products

The use of optional products is a marketing strategy that involves the
cross-selling of products along with a core product. The aim is to offer
useful and related products to customers, which may result in an
increased sale.

For instance, if a customer wants to buy a car, they have the choice to
order massaging seats, as well, or ignore the offer and simply buy the
car. Presenting the choice to purchase optional products enhances the
customer experience.

## Optional products on quotations

With the Odoo *Sales* application, it is possible to add or modify
optional products directly on quotations by navigating to the `Optional
Products` tab on a quotation form.

![How to add optional products to your quotations on Odoo
Sales.](optional_products/optional-products-tab.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

Click the `Customer Preview` button to reveal a preview of the quotation
customers would receive via email, along with the optional products they
have a chance of adding to their order.

![Preview your quotations on Odoo
Sales.](optional_products/optional-products-checkout.png)

</div>

In practice, customers are able to add different optional products to an
order by clicking the `ðŸ›’ (shopping cart)` icon, located to the right of
the optional product line. If a customer selects all the optional
products suggested, these additional items are automatically filled in
on the quotation that is managed by the salesperson.

![How to select optional products on Odoo
Sales.](optional_products/optional-products-add-to-cart.png)

When the customer adds an optional product(s) to an order, the
salesperson is instantly notified about the change, along with any other
change the customer makes to an order. This allows salespeople to stay
up-to-date with everything related to an order in the backend of the
*Sales* application.

![How to follow each movement made by your customers on Odoo
Sales.](optional_products/optional-products-order-lines.png)

## Optional products on quotation templates

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Be sure to review the documentation on how to
`/applications/sales/sales/send_quotations/quote_template` to better
understand how quotation templates work before reading the following
information.

</div>

For quotation templates, just like a typical quotation form, there is
also an `Optional
Products` tab, wherein related products or services can be added to a
quotation template.

To add optional products to a quotation template, navigate to `Sales app
-->
Configuration --> Quotation Templates`. Then, either select an existing
quotation template to edit, or create a new one by clicking `New`.

On the quotation form, click `Edit`, then click the `Optional Products`
tab. Under the `Optional Products` tab, click `Add a line`, and select
the desired product to add as an optional product to the quotation
template.

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

It's best to offer optional products that would encourage a customer to
add additional items to their order, or entice them to purchase a more
expensive version of their initially selected product.

For example, if a customer purchases a wooden chair, some optional
products could be: a warranty on that chair and/or a wooden chair with
leather seats.

</div>

When the desired optional product(s) have been added, click `Save` to
save all changes.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

There is no limit to how many optional products can be added to a
quotation template.

</div>

The products added in the `Optional Products` tab are present in the
quotation, by default, whenever that particular quotation template is
used.

![How to add optional products to your quotation templates on Odoo
Sales.](optional_products/optional-products-quotation-template.png)

<div class="seealso">

`/applications/sales/sales/send_quotations/quote_template`

</div>
