# Product variants on quotations and sales orders

Product variants can be added to quotations and sales orders using the
*product configurator*, *variant grid entry*, or both.

## Configuration

To enable product variants on quotations and sales orders, go to `Sales
app -->
Configuration --> Settings`, and under the `Product Catalog` heading,
activate one (or both) of the `Product Configurator` and `Variant Grid
Entry` settings. Finally, click `Save` to apply the settings.

![Activating entry type
settings.](orders_and_variants/activating-entry-type-settings.png)

After saving the settings, it's time to configure the product form.

To do that, navigate to `Sales app --> Products --> Products`, and
select the desired product to configure (or click `Create` to open a
blank product form, and create a new one).

On the product form, click `Edit`, and select the `Variants` tab. Click
`Add a line` to add an attribute in the `Attribute` column, like
<span class="title-ref">Color</span> or
<span class="title-ref">Size</span>, for example.

Once the attribute is chosen, select the desired values to apply to that
attribute in the `Values` column. To select the desired values, click
into the blank field beneath the `Values` column.

Then, select an option from the drop-down menu that appears. Or, create
a new value by typing in the new value, and click `Create` from the
drop-down menu that appears beneath the new value.

When a product has *at least* two variants (one attribute with two
values), the `Sales
Variant Selection` option appears at the bottom of the `Variants` tab.
That is the **only** way to make that option appear, so keep that in
mind.

Under `Sales Variant Selection`, choose either `Product Configurator` or
`Order Grid Entry`. This selection determines which method is used to
add the product to quotations or sales orders.

  - `Product Configurator`: choose attribute values to add the matching
    product variant to the order.
  - `Order Grid Entry`: add several variants at once from the grid of
    attribute values.

Once a selection is made, click `Save` on the product form to apply the
setting.

![Sales variant
selection.](orders_and_variants/sales-variant-selection.png)

## Product configurator

The *product configurator* appears on a quotation or sales order when
products that have **both** variants configured are added, and the
`Product Configurator` option is selected on the product form.

The product configurator lets salespeople choose exactly which product
variant to add to the quotation or sales order, using a format similar
to online shopping. Color options display any HTML color codes set up in
the `Color` attribute.

Features with an additional cost display the additional cost next to
their name. Once the desired product variant attributes are selected,
click `Add` to add the product variant to the quotation or sales order.

![Product Configurator and Price
Extras.](orders_and_variants/configurator-price-extras.png)

By default, the product variant attributes are displayed on the
quotation or sales order in the `Description` column, but a dedicated
`Product Variant` column can be added, via the additional options menu
(represented by the `â‹® (3 vertical dots)` icon, on the far-right side of
the columns, in the `Order Lines` tab).

![Product variant column option in order lines tab of
quotation.](orders_and_variants/product-variant-column-option.png)

Just click the checkbox next to `Product Variant`, and that column
appears in the `Order Lines` tab.

## Variant grid entries

*Variant grid entries* appear on a quotation or sales order when
products that have both variants configured are added, and the `Order
Grid Entry` option is selected on the product form.

The grid entry feature streamlines the process of creating large, varied
quotations by letting salespeople enter exact quantities of each product
variant all at once.

The `Choose Product Variants` pop-up form that appears, displays a grid
of every variant available for that specific product.

From the `Choose Product Variants` pop-up form, choose the exact
quantities of each product variant for a quotation or sales order by
typing in the number or using the arrows in each column. The `Not
Available` warning is displayed when a particular variant has been
deactivated in the database.

Once all the product variants and their quantities have been set in the
pop-up form, click `Confirm` to add them to the quotation or sales
order.

![Variant Grid Entry pop-up
form.](orders_and_variants/grid-entry-popup-amounts.png)

Each product variant appears as an individual line item on the quotation
or sales order with the chosen quantity from the `Choose Product
Variants` pop-up form, because each of these items has its own stock.

![Line items for grid
variants.](orders_and_variants/grid-variants-line-items.png)
