# Get started with Discuss

Odoo *Discuss* is an internal communication app that allows users to
connect through messages, notes, and file sharing, either through a
persistent chat window that works across applications, or through the
dedicated *Discuss* dashboard.

## Choose notifications preference

Access user-specific preferences for the *Discuss* app by navigating to
`Settings app
--> Users --> User --> Preferences tab`.

![View of the Preferences tab for Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/preferences-user.png)

By default, the `Notification` field is set as `Handle by Emails`. With
this setting enabled, a notification email will be sent by Odoo every
time a message is sent from the chatter, a note is sent with an
<span class="title-ref">@</span> mention (from chatter), or a
notification is sent for a record that the user follows. Something that
triggers a notification is changing of the stage (if an emailis
configured to be sent, for example if the task is set to `Done`).

By choosing `Handle in Odoo`, the above notifications are shown in the
*Discuss* app's *inbox*. Messages can have the following actions taken
on them: respond with an emoji by clicking `Add a Reaction`, or reply to
the message by clicking on `Reply`. Additional actions may include
starring the message by clicking `Marked as Todo`, or pinning the
message by selecting `Pin` or even mark the message as unread by
selecting `Marked as unread`.

![View of an inbox message and its action options in Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/reactions-discuss.png)

Clicking `Mark as Todo` on a message causes it to appear on the
`Starred` page, while clicking `Mark as Read` moves the message to
`History`.

![View of messages marked as todo in Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/starred-messages.png)

## Start chatting

The first time a user logs in to their account, OdooBot sends a message
asking for permission to send desktop notifications for chats. If
accepted, the user will receive push notifications on their desktop for
the messages they receive, regardless of where the user is in Odoo.

![View of the messages under the messaging menu emphasizing the request
for push&#10;notifications for Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/odoobot-push.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

To stop receiving desktop notifications, reset the notifications
settings of the browser.

</div>

To start a chat, go to the `Discuss` app and click on the `+ (plus)`
icon next to `Direct Messages` or `Channels` in the left menu of the
dashboard.

![View of Discuss's panel emphasizing the titles channels and direct
messages in Odoo&#10;Discuss.](get_started/channels-direct-messages.png)

A company can also easily create `public and private channels
</applications/productivity/discuss/overview/team_communication>`.

### Mentions in the chat and on the chatter

To mention a user within a chat or the chatter, type
<span class="title-ref">@user-name</span>; to refer to a channel, type
<span class="title-ref">\#channel-name</span>. The user mentioned will
be notified in their *inbox* or through an email, depending on their
communication settings.

![View of a couple of chat window messages for Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/chat-windows.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

When a user is mentioned, the search list (list of names) suggests
values first based on the task's followers, and secondly on employees.
If the record being searched does not match with either a follower or
employee, the scope of the search becomes all partners.

</div>

### User status

It is helpful to see what colleagues are up to and how quickly they can
respond to messages by checking their *status*. The status is shown on
the left side of a contact's name on the `Discuss` sidebar, on the
*messaging menu* and when listed in the *chatter*.

  - Green = online
  - Orange = away
  - White = offline
  - Airplane = out of the office

![View of the contacts' status for Odoo
Discuss.](get_started/status.png)

<div class="seealso">

\- `/applications/productivity/discuss/overview/team_communication` -
`/applications/productivity/discuss/overview/plan_activities`

</div>
