# Ponto

**Ponto** is a service that allows companies and professionals to
aggregate their accounts in one place and directly see all their
transactions within one app. It is a third-party solution that is
continuously expanding the number of bank institutions that can be
synchronized with Odoo.

<img src="ponto/ponto-logo.png" class="align-center"
alt="Logo of the Ponto brand" />

**Odoo** can synchronize directly with your bank to get all bank
statements imported automatically into your database.

Ponto is a paid third-party provider that can handle the synchronization
between your bank accounts and Odoo. [Its pricing is 4â‚¬/month per
account/integration](https://myponto.com/en#pricing).

<div class="seealso">

\- `../bank_synchronization` - `../transactions`

</div>

## Configuration

### Link your bank accounts with Ponto

1.  Go to [Ponto's website (https://myponto.com)](https://myponto.com).

2.  Create an account if you don't have one yet.

3.  Once you are logged in, create an *organization*.

    <img src="ponto/ponto-organization.png" class="align-center"
    alt="Fill out the form to add an organization in Ponto." />

4.  Go to `Accounts --> Live`, and click on *Add account*.  
    You might have to add your **Billing Information** first.

5.  Select your country, your bank institutions, give your consent to
    Ponto, and follow the steps on-screen to link your bank account with
    your Ponto account.

    <img src="ponto/ponto-add-account.png" class="align-center"
    alt="Add bank accounts to your Ponto account." />

6.  Make sure to add all bank accounts you want to synchronize with your
    Odoo database before moving on to the next steps.

### Link your Ponto account with your Odoo database

1.  Go to `Accounting --> Configuration --> Add a Bank Account`.

2.  Search your institution, make sure to select the right institution.
    By selecting the institution, you can verify that the third party
    provider is Ponto.

3.  Click on *Connect* and follow the steps.

4.  At some point, you will have to authorize the accounts you want to
    access in Odoo. Please select **all the accounts** you want to
    synchronize. Even the ones coming from other banking institutions.

    <img src="ponto/ponto-select-accounts.png" class="align-center"
    alt="Selection of the accounts you wish to synchronize with Odoo." />

5.  Finish the flow.

> [!NOTE]
> You have to authorize all the accounts you want to access in Odoo, but
> Odoo will filter the accounts based on the institution you selected in
> the second step.

### Update your synchronization credentials

You might have to update your Ponto credentials or modify the
synchronization settings.

To do so, go to
`Accounting --> Configuration --> Online Synchronization` and select the
institution you want to fetch the other accounts. Click on *Fetch
Accounts* button to start the flow.

During the update, select **all the accounts** you want to synchronize,
even the ones coming from other banking institutions.

### Fetch new accounts

You might want to add new online accounts to your connection.

To do so, go to
`Accounting --> Configuration --> Online Synchronization` and select the
institution you want to fetch the other accounts. Click on *Fetch
Accounts* button to start the flow.

Don't forget to keep authorization for existing accounts (for all
institutions that you have synchronized with Ponto).

## FAQ

### After my synchronization, no account appears

You selected an institution from the list and did not authorize any
accounts from this institution.

### I have an error about that my authorization has expired

Every **3 months** (90 days) you must re-authorize the connection
between your bank account and Ponto. This must be done from the [Ponto
website](https://myponto.com). If you do not do this, the
synchronization will stop for these accounts.

### I have some errors with my beta institution

Ponto provides institutions in *beta*, these institutions are not
directly supported by Odoo and we advise you to contact Ponto directly.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Using an institution in beta is beneficial for Ponto, it allows them
> to have real feedback on the connection with the institution.
