# Devices and integrations

`VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)` can be used on many different
devices, such as a computer, tablet, mobile phone, and many more. This
is helpful in that it reduces costs, and employees can work from
anywhere in the world, so long as they have a broadband internet
connection.

Odoo *VoIP* is SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) compatible, which means
it can be used with *any* `SIP (Session Initiation Protocol)` compatible
application.

This document covers the process of setting up Odoo *VoIP* across
different devices and integrations.

Odoo is fully-integrated with all Odoo apps, allowing users to click
into any app, and schedule a call as an activity in the chatter.

<div class="example">

For example, in the *CRM* app, a user can click into an opportunity, and
click on `Activities` in the chatter.

Next, they can choose `Call`, and under `Due Date`, they can select a
date.

Once they click `Save`, an activity shows up in the chatter.

Should the `Due Date` be for today's date, the activity shows up in the
`VoIP
(Voice over Internet Protocol)` widget.

![View of CRM leads and the option to schedule an activity for Odoo
Discuss.](devices_integrations/crm-voip-widget.png)

</div>

## Odoo VoIP (laptop/desktop computer)

The Odoo *VoIP* (Voice over Internet Protocol) module and widget can be
used from any browser on a laptop or desktop device. Simply click on the
`ðŸ“ž (phone)` icon in the upper-right corner, while in the Odoo database,
and the widget appears.

<div class="seealso">

To see how to use the `VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)` widget on a
desktop/laptop computer, check out this documentation: `voip_widget`.

</div>

## Odoo VoIP (tablet/mobile device)

The Odoo *VoIP* app can be used on tablets and mobile phones, through
the Odoo Android or Apple IOS applications. Additionally, a mobile web
browser can be used to access the database.

<div class="warning">

<div class="title">

Warning

</div>

Odoo Android and Apple IOS applications are no longer being maintained
by Odoo on the Android and Apple portals. This means Odoo support only
handles limited scopes of Odoo Android or Apple IOS support tickets.

</div>

<div class="important">

<div class="title">

Important

</div>

While outgoing calls can be placed using Odoo on a mobile device, be
aware that Odoo is **not** a full `VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)`
application, and does **not** ring on incoming calls. If the user needs
to be reachable on a mobile device at all times, an app, like Zoiper,
should be used. Apps like that stay connected in the background at all
times.

For more information, see this documentation: `voip/zoiper`.

</div>

While in the mobile application on a mobile device/tablet, access the
Odoo *VoIP* widget, by tapping on the `ðŸ“ž (phone)` icon in the
upper-right corner. The widget appears in the lower-left corner.

When first making a call from the tablet using the mobile application,
the user is prompted to `Allow` the database to use the microphone.
Click `Allow` when prompted to continue with the call using the
microphone.

This step is **necessary**, whether using the mobile Odoo application or
web browser.

![Allow the database to access the
microphone.](devices_integrations/allow-mic.png)

Odoo then asks how to make the call. The two options are : `VOIP` or
`Phone` (should the tablet be enabled for calling). Click the box next
to `Remember ?` should this decision be the default moving forward.

![Window prompt to choose whether to use VOIP or the devices phone to
make the call.](devices_integrations/voip-phone.png)

Here is the layout of what the Odoo *VoIP* app looks like on a mobile
device:

![Layout of what the VoIP app looks like on the a mobile
device.](devices_integrations/voip-odoo-dashboard.png)

## Zoiper Lite

*Zoiper Lite* is a free `VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)` `SIP
(Session Initiation
Protocol)` dialer with voice and video.

To start using the *Zoiper* app, download it to the device, via the
[Zoiper download
page](https://www.zoiper.com/en/voip-softphone/download/current).

A mobile device is the most common installation, and this document
covers how to set up on the *Zoiper* IOS application. Screenshots and
steps may differ depending on the set up conditions.

After installing the *Zoiper* application on the mobile phone, open the
application, and tap on `Settings`. Navigate to `Accounts`, and tap on
the `+ (plus)` icon to add an account.

If the `VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)` account is already set up,
then click `Yes`. This means an account username and password has
already been produced.

![Zoiper account setup, shown in the view from a mobile
device.](devices_integrations/account-settings-zoiper-group.png)

Next, tap on `Select a provider`. On the screen that populates, tap
`Country`, in the upper-right corner, to narrow the providers down to a
specific country. Choose the country for the provider that is being
configured, then find the `Provider`, and select it.

<div class="example">

If the provider being configured is *Axivox*, then select `Belgium`.
Then, choose `Axivox` as the provider.

</div>

![Zoiper account setup, choosing the
provider.](devices_integrations/provider-zoiper-odoo.png)

Under `SIP (Session Initiation Protocol)` options, enter the `Account
name`, `Domain`, `Username`, and `Password`. All this information
varies, based on the account.

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

To access this information, via the *Axivox* portal, navigate to `Users
--> Choose
user --> Edit --> SIP Identifiers tab`. The `SIP username`, `Domain`,
`SIP password`, and `Address of the proxy server` are all present in
this tab.

</div>

| Zoiper Field | Axivox Field      |
| ------------ | ----------------- |
| Account name | *Can be anything* |
| Domain       | Domain            |
| Username     | SIP username      |
| Password     | SIP password      |

Once this account information is entered, click the green `Register`
button at the top of the screen. Once the registration information is
checked, *Zoiper* populates a message, stating `Registration Status:
OK`.

At this point, *Zoiper* is now set up to make phone calls using the
`VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol)` service.

![Zoiper account setup, registration
successful.](devices_integrations/sip-options-zoiper.png)

## Linphone

*Linphone* is an open-source `VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)` `SIP
(Session
Initiation Protocol)` softphone, used for voice, video, messaging (group
and individual), as well as conference calls.

To start using the *Linphone* app, download it to the device, via the
[Linphone download
page](https://new.linphone.org/technical-corner/linphone?qt-technical_corner=2#qt-technical_corner).

A mobile device is the most common installation, and this document
covers how to set up the *Linphone* IOS application. Screenshots and
steps may differ depending on the circumstances.

To begin configuring *Linphone* for use with a `SIP (Session Initiation
Protocol)` provider, first open *Linphone*, and an assistant screen
appears.

From this screen, select `Use SIP Account`. Then, on the following
screen, enter the `Username`, `Password`, `Domain`, and `Display Name`.
Once complete, press `Login`.

At this point, *Linphone* is ready to start making calls, once there is
a green button at the top of the application screen that reads,
`Connected`.

![Linphone account setup, registration
successful.](devices_integrations/linphone-odoo-setup.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

*Linphone* makes a variety of applications for mobile and desktop
devices in operating systems, such as Windows, Linux, Apple, and
Android. Because *Linphone* is an open-source project, many new updates
are released on a regular basis.

See [Linphone's wiki-documentation
page](https://wiki.linphone.org/xwiki/wiki/public/view/Linphone/).

</div>
