  - show-content

# Fiscal localizations

## Fiscal localization packages

**Fiscal Localization Packages** are country-specific modules that
install pre-configured taxes, fiscal positions, chart of accounts, and
legal statements on your database. Some additional features, such as the
configuration of specific certificates, are also added to your
Accounting app, following your fiscal administration requirements.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Odoo continuously adds new localizations and improves the existing
packages.

</div>

### Configuration

Odoo automatically installs the appropriate package for your company,
according to the country selected at the creation of the database.

<div class="important">

<div class="title">

Important

</div>

As long as you haven't posted any entry, you can still add and select
another package.

</div>

To install a new package, go to `Accounting --> Configuration --> Fiscal
Localization`, click on **Install More Packages**, and install your
country's module.

![Install the appropriate module as fiscal localization package in Odoo
Accounting.](fiscal_localizations/packages_modules.png)

Once done, select your country's package, and click on *Save*.

![Select your country's fiscal localization package in Odoo
Accounting.](fiscal_localizations/packages_selection.png)

### Use

These packages require you to fine-tune your chart of accounts according
to your needs, activate the taxes you use, and configure your
country-specific statements and certifications.

<div class="seealso">

\- `accounting/getting_started/initial_configuration/chart_of_accounts`
- `accounting/taxation/taxes/taxes`

</div>

## List of supported countries

Odoo Accounting can be used in many countries out of the box by
installing the appropriate module. Here is a list of all `fiscal
localization package <fiscal_localizations/packages>` that are available
on Odoo.

  - Algeria - Accounting
  - `Argentina - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/argentina>`
  - `Australian - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/australia>`
  - Austria - Accounting
  - `Belgium - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/belgium>`
  - Bolivia - Accounting
  - Brazilian - Accounting
  - Canada - Accounting
  - `Chile - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/chile>`
  - China - Accounting
  - `Colombia - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/colombia>`
  - Costa Rica - Accounting
  - Croatia - Accounting (RRIF 2012)
  - Denmark - Accounting
  - Dominican Republic - Accounting
  - Ecuador - Accounting
  - Ethiopia - Accounting
  - Finnish Localization
  - `France - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/france>`
  - Generic - Accounting
  - `Germany <fiscal_localizations/germany>`
      - Germany SKR03 - Accounting
      - Germany SKR04 - Accounting
  - Greece - Accounting
  - Guatemala - Accounting
  - Honduras - Accounting
  - Hong Kong - Accounting
  - Hungarian - Accounting
  - Indian - Accounting
  - `Indonesian - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/indonesia>`
  - Ireland - Accounting
  - Israel - Accounting
  - `Italy - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/italy>`
  - Japan - Accounting
  - Lithuania - Accounting
  - `Luxembourg - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/luxembourg>`
  - Maroc - Accounting
  - `Mexico - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/mexico>`
  - Mongolia - Accounting
  - `Netherlands - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/netherlands>`
  - New Zealand - Accounting
  - Norway - Accounting
  - OHADA - Accounting
  - Panama - Accounting
  - `Peru - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/peru>`
  - Poland - Accounting
  - Portugal - Accounting
  - Romania - Accounting
  - Saudi Arabia - Accounting
  - Singapore - Accounting
  - Slovak - Accounting
  - Slovenian - Accounting
  - South Africa - Accounting
  - `Spain - Accounting (PGCE 2008) <fiscal_localizations/spain>`
  - Swedish - Accounting
  - `Switzerland - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/switzerland>`
  - Thailand - Accounting
  - Turkey - Accounting
  - U.A.E. - Accounting
  - `UK - Accounting <fiscal_localizations/united_kingdom>`
  - Ukraine - Accounting
  - United States - Accounting
  - Uruguay - Accounting
  - Venezuela - Accounting
  - Vietnam - Accounting

<div class="toctree" data-titlesonly="">

fiscal\_localizations/argentina fiscal\_localizations/australia
fiscal\_localizations/belgium fiscal\_localizations/chile
fiscal\_localizations/colombia fiscal\_localizations/france
fiscal\_localizations/germany fiscal\_localizations/indonesia
fiscal\_localizations/italy fiscal\_localizations/luxembourg
fiscal\_localizations/mexico fiscal\_localizations/netherlands
fiscal\_localizations/peru fiscal\_localizations/spain
fiscal\_localizations/switzerland fiscal\_localizations/united\_kingdom

</div>
