# Bank accounts

You can manage as many **Bank Accounts** as needed on your database.
Configuring them well allows you to make sure that all your banking data
is up to date and ready for the reconciliation with your *Journal
Entries*.

In Odoo Accounting, each Bank Account is configured to have a dedicated
*Journal* which is configured to post all entries in a dedicated
*Account*.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Whenever you add a Bank Account, a dedicated journal and a dedicated
account are automatically created and configured.

</div>

Every **Bank Journal** is displayed by default on the **Accounting
Overview** in the form of a convenient card. It includes action buttons
that are displayed when appropriate.

![Bank Journals Cards are displayed on the Accounting Overview in Odoo
Accounting](bank_accounts/bank_accounts_card.png)

## Add a new Bank Account

You can either connect your bank account to your Odoo database, or
configure your bank account manually and `upload the bank statements
manually <../bank_statements>`.

### Bank Synchronization

Connect your bank account to your database and have your bank statements
synced automatically.

To synchronize a new bank account, go to `Accounting --> Configuration`,
click on *Add a Bank Account*, then find your bank in the list, click on
*Connect*, and follow the instructions on-screen.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

`Click here <../../bank/bank_synchronization>` for more information
about this bank synchronization.

</div>

![Select a bank institution in the list and connect it to Odoo
Accounting](bank_accounts/bank_accounts_connect.png)

### Manual configuration

If your Bank Institution canâ€™t be synchronized automatically, or if you
prefer not to sync it with your database, you may also configure your
bank account manually.

To add a new bank account manually, go to `Accounting -->
Configuration`, click on *Add a Bank Account*, then on *Create it*, and
fill out the form.

  - **Name**: the bank account's name, as displayed on Odoo.
  - **Account Number**: your bank account number (IBAN in Europe).
  - **Bank**: click on *Create and Edit* to configure the bank's
    details. Add the bank institution's name and its Identifier Code
    (BIC or SWIFT).
  - **Code**: this code is your Journal's *Short Code*, as displayed on
    Odoo. By default, Odoo creates a new Journal with this Short Code.
  - **Journal**: This field is displayed if you have an existing Bank
    Journal that is not linked yet to a bank account. If so, then select
    the *Journal* you want to use to record the financial transactions
    linked to this bank account or create a new one by clicking on
    *Create and Edit*.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Odoo detects the bank account type (e.g., IBAN) and enables some
features accordingly.

</div>

![Add manually a new bank account in Odoo
Accounting](bank_accounts/bank_accounts_manual.png)

## Advanced configuration

To edit an existing bank account, go to `Accounting --> Configuration
--> Bank
Accounts`, and open the bank account you want to modify.

If you need to edit the bank account details, go to the *Bank Account*
field and click on the *External Link* button next to the list arrow.
There, you can edit the bank account's number, Account Holder, Account
Holder Name, and your Bank Institution's details by clicking on the
*External Link* next to the *Bank* field. These details are used to
register some payments.

You can configure which types of payments are enabled in the **Payment
Method Types** section and how the bank statements are recorded and
posted in the **Bank Statements** section.

![Advanced configuration of a bank account in Odoo
Accounting](bank_accounts/bank_accounts_configuration.png)

<div class="seealso">

\- `../bank_synchronization` - `../bank_statements` - [Odoo Tutorials:
Accounting Basics](https://www.odoo.com/r/lsZ)

</div>
