# Process receipts and deliveries in one step

<div id="inventory/receipts_delivery_one_step">

By default, incoming shipments are configured to be received directly
into stock, and outgoing shipments are configured to be delivered
directly from stock to the customer; the default setting for warehouses
in Odoo is one step receipts and deliveries.

</div>

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Incoming and outgoing shipments do not need to be configured with the
same steps. For example, products can be received in one step, but
shipped in three steps.

</div>

In the following example, one step will be used for both receipts and
deliveries.

## Configure the warehouse

If another receiving or shipping configuration is set on the warehouse,
they can easily be set back to the one step setting.

Begin by navigating to `Inventory --> Configuration -->
Warehouses`, click on the desired warehouse, and click `Edit`. Next, on
the `Warehouse Configuration` tab, under the `Shipments` section, select
`Receive goods directly (1 step)` for `Incoming Shipments` and/or
`Deliver goods directly (1 step)` for `Outgoing Shipments`, and `Save`
the changes to finish.

![Set incoming and outgoing shipment options to receive and deliver in
one step.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-warehouse-config.png)

## Receive goods directly (1 step)

### Create a purchase order

On the main `Purchase` application dashboard, start by making a new
quote by clicking `Create`. Then, select (or create) a `Vendor` from the
drop-down field, add a storable `Product` to the order lines, and click
`Confirm Order` to finalize the quote as a new purchase order.

A `Receipt` smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the `PO
(purchase
order)` form ‚Äî click it to reveal the associated receipt for the
purchase order.

![Receipt smart button appears on the confirmed purchase
order.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-po-receipt.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

Purchase order receipts can also be found in the `Inventory`
application. In the `Overview` dashboard, click the `# to Process` smart
button in the `Receipts` kanban card.

![Receipt kanban card's 1 to Process smart
button.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-to-process-btn.png)

</div>

### Process the receipt

When viewing the receipt (associated with the purchase order above),
click `Validate` to then complete the receipt.

![Validate the purchase order via the Validate smart
button.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-po-validate.png)

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

If `Storage Locations` are activated, clicking the `‚â£ (bullet list)`
details icon next to the `üóëÔ∏è (trash)` delete icon enables the `Detailed
Operations` screen to pop-up. This allows the location(s) to be
specified for the received product(s).

![Select the Storage Location for the products being received in the
Detailed
Operations&#10;pop-up.](receipts_delivery_one_step/receive-storage-location.png)

</div>

Once the receipt is validated, the product leaves the `Supplier
Location` and enters the `WH/Stock Location`. Once it arrives here, it
will be available for manufacturing, sales, etc. Then, the status of the
document will change to `Done`, thus completing the reception process in
one step.

## Deliver goods directly (1 step)

### Create a sales order

Start my navigating to the main `Sales` app dashboard, and make a new
quote by clicking `Create`. Then select (or create) a `Customer` from
the drop-down field, add a storable `Product` that is in stock to the
order lines, and click `Confirm` to finalize the quotation as a sales
order.

A `Receipt` smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the `PO
(purchase
order)` form ‚Äî click it to reveal the associated receipt for the
purchase order.

A `Delivery` smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the `SO
(Sales
Order)` form ‚Äî click it to reveal the associated delivery order for the
sales order.

![The Delivery smart button appears after the sales order is
confirmed.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-sales-order.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

Delivery orders can also be found in the `Inventory` application. In the
`Overview` dashboard, click the `# to Process` smart button in the
`Delivery Orders` kanban card.

![Delivery Orders kanban card's 1 to Process smart
button.](receipts_delivery_one_step/one-step-delivery-to-process.png)

</div>

### Process the delivery

When viewing the delivery order (associated with the sales order above),
click `Validate` to then complete the delivery.

![Validate the delivery
order.](receipts_delivery_one_step/validate-one-step-sales-order.png)

Once the picking order is validated, the product leaves the `WH/Stock
location` and moves to the `Partners/Customers location`. Then, the
status of the document will change to `Done`, thus completing delivery
in one step.
