# Floors and tables management

## Add a floor

Once your *Point of Sale* has been configured, select *Table Management*
under `Point of Sale --> Configuration -->
Point of Sale`. Then, click on *Floors* to create and name your floor
and tables.

![View of the table management feature. Way to manage and create floors
for a pos](floors_tables/restaurant_03.png)

![Backend view of a restaurant floor. Table name and number of sits for
each table](floors_tables/restaurant_04.png)

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Donâ€™t forget to link your floor to your point of sale.

</div>

## Add tables

To add tables, you can also open your PoS interface to see your
floor(s).

![View of the floors menu to manage several floors at the same
time](floors_tables/restaurant_05.png)

Then, click on *Edit Mode* (pencil icon on the upper right corner) to be
allowed to create, move, modify tables, etc.

![View of the floor management. Add tables, the number of sits, their
name and their shape](floors_tables/restaurant_06.png)

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

To make your table easier to be found, you can rename them, change their
shape, size or even color. It is also possible to add the maximum number
of sits the table can have.

</div>

## Register your table(s) orders

To register an order, click on the respective table. By doing so, you
are taken to your main interface.

![View of the pos interface to register
orders](floors_tables/restaurant_07.png)

## Transfer customer(s)

If your customers want to move to another table after they already
ordered, use the transfer button. This way, the order is also moved to
the new table.

To do so, select the table your customer is currently on.

![View of the restaurant tables, one having a pending
order](floors_tables/restaurant_08.png)

Now, click on the transfer button and select the table to which you are
transferring your customer.

![View of the pos interface and transfer button. How to transfer
customers from one table&#10;to
another](floors_tables/restaurant_09.png)

## Register an additional order

When registering an order, use the + button to simultaneously proceed to
another one.

Then, you can shift between your orders and process the payment when
needed.

![View of the - button, allowing employees to close/remove an
order](floors_tables/restaurant_10.png)

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

The - button allows you to remove the order you are currently on.

</div>
